>> Steve Kinney: Redux Observable is
effectively binding Redux to RxJS
in the same way that React Redux
binds Redux to React.
I'm pretty sure we have full
courses on Observables,
so I will not go all
the way into Observables.
This is kinda again beyond the scope of
this, we use a very limited set of RxJS.
I think we aspire to use more, there's
a lot more that we want to use, but
currently, baby steps.
So we'll talk about enough
RxJS to be dangerous,
without getting kinda too deep into it.
So Redux Observable, we should be
pretty clear on the Redux part, but
what is this observable?
And observable you can
think about as a stream,
think about an array over
the dimension of time.
Where things are coming in, and
this could be, for instance,
things streaming in,
when we hear back from the API.
It could be stuff off our website,
it could be mouse movements, right?
Anything that happens over the course of
time is probably a good candidate for
an observable.
And then the cool thing about
stream is that it's cancelable.
You can start listening to
the series of events, and
much like an eventometer,
you can stop listening when you're done.
Great, so
the interesting thing is all of our Redux
Observable has a thing called an epic.
There's a bunch of fun words for all these
libraries, like Redux Saga, Users Saga,
as in like what is that?
It's a term from the '80s, again, like
a lot of front-end thought leadership.
Is taking things that we were doing 30,
40 years ago, and
building libraries around
our modern frameworks.
So it uses this idea of an epic,
which obviously raises the next question,
what is an epic?
An epic is actually bizarrely simple,
even though when we look at
some of the code, it's not.
It doesn't seem that way,
because a lot of the complexity
when we see the code is RxJS.
Which again,
I'm not gonna go all the way into,
I will leave it as an exercise for you.
But I'll show you how we can
hook it up all together.
And so, an epic is a function that
takes a stream of actions dispatched,
and returns a new stream of actions.
So a way to think about it is you've
got an action, it goes into the epic.
Another action spits out the other end,
which is weirdly great.
Because it means that when they hit
the button saying like load the tweets.
That will fire an action saying load
the tweets which Redux can deal with,
you can put up a loading thing.
It goes through the normal flow,
the epic can then go like I'm making
an AJAX request, and I get that.
I'm gonna figure out all this other
stuff and then I will fire a new action.
I will take that read the tweets action,
do some stuff,
and I will transform it into a new
action that has some tweets.
And so all of your Redux-base
stays completely unaware, but
it's effectively all of your React and
your Dispatch.
Is dispatching normal Redux actions
that are going through the normal flow.
Your whole React Redux application really
doesn't deal with any of this stuff.
The epics are just quietly listening to
all of the actions that flow through,
that's were the Observable comes in.
To all of the actions that
are flowing through the system, and
occasionally they'll be like,
I care about that one.
Let me go make a AJAX request,
then I'll fire another one and
I'll transform that into a new action.
But I want to point this out again,
which is the actions still
go to their normal way.
So if you fire a [INAUDIBLE] of tweets,
that's still going
through all the reducers.
The reducers can choose
not to listen to it, but
this middle work kinda sits
outside of your normal flow.
And it's just listening to every
action that comes through,
if it's an action that you
decided that you care about.
It pays attention to it, it transforms it,
and it does kind of the next thing.
So here's the default
Redux Observable example.
This is a normal thing,
which is like, hey, if we get the action
type PING, return Pong, right?
So listen for every action, this
theoretically is not really a reducer,
this is a regular JavaScript.
This is not an epic,
this is what it looks like in an epic.
So listen for all the actions and
that dollar sign is a same way like we use
a dollar sign in front of variables
that are wrapped in jQuery.
It's just a way for
us to know that this is an observable.
For every action that comes in,
all of them, if it's
an action of the Type( 'PING' ) map it in
the same way you would map over an array.
Cuz again an Observable is an array
over the dimension of time.
Crazy, right?
Everyone that comes in if you have
the Type( 'PING' ) map it to PONG.
And so what that basically does,
is it just transforms actions as they come
through, and
it's just constantly listening.
That's great to talk about, we're
going to look at that second example.
With the Star Wars Autocomplete,
cuz that does a bunch of things.
There's a definite case where we
want to cancel an AJAX request.
You won't necessarily stop
the browser from sending that out.
You're just being like, yo, browser,
I've moved on,
I think we should do other things.
So an Autocomplete is a good example,
it's just,
you might fire off an AJAX request for
every key stroke.
But you only care about the most recent
one, you don't care about all of them.
You just care about the last one
that happened, so basically,
you wanna stop listening.
Cuz what will happen is,
let's say, generally speaking,
we have an Autocomplete.
You're gonna fire them off
after every keystroke.
And given normal network conditions,
they're gonna come back in
roughly the same order.
That's not actually true, right?
With intermittent network connection,
you might have your last one not show up.
And then a previous one come back slowly,
and stuff like that, and
it could get weird.
So you might be like,
I only care about the most recent one.
And that's the problem that
we're gonna try to solve for.